well attempts to get competing
resolutions on the conflict through the
UN Security Council have exposed some
deep diplomatic fault lines now the US
has finalized its version with some key
changes well for more on this we can go
to New York and our correspondent
Gabriel aland who's live for us so
what's interesting about this us
resolution
Gabe yeah this is the final draft it
could be voted upon as soon as Tuesday
afternoon we're hearing and it's four
pages long 18 different points but there
are two that I want to point out that
are new in this final draft there's one
point that says H any movement of people
must be voluntary safe and consistent
with international law and urges all
parties to take appropriate steps to
promote the safety and well-being of
civilians and their safe movement this
is key because uh this is essentially
the US saying that they would want uh
any move movement of people to be
voluntary and not forced that goes to
the issue of Israel uh demanding that
people in the north of Gaza relocate to
the South the US saying it needs to be
voluntary and not forced aside from that
another key point in this draft it calls
for all measures necessary such as
humanitarian pauses to allow for
humanitarian Aid keyword humanitarian PA
is there the US had not agreed to that
previously it's something that many
Security Council Members had wanted put
in and the US clearly relenting on that
noticeably not demanding a humanitarian
pause but at least in this final uh
version here at least suggesting that
the US would be open to it in this
resolution yeah Gabriel it was about
7even days ago that the UN Security
Council had rejected a Russian
resolution it was condemning violence
and terrorism against civilians but it
made no mention
of Hamas is there any what chance that
this one is going to
pass will this pass it's anyone's guess
at this point I mean this version the
final version here is certainly closer
to what uh Security Council Members have
voted for previously in a Brazil
resolution that uh 12 members voted for
uh the US vetoed it uh it'll be key to
watch Russia and how Russia votes on
this if they abstain or if they choose
to wield the VTO power that they have or
not but the bottom line is it's anyone's
guess right now Anthony blinkin the
secretary of state is planning to be at
the United Nations there was supposed to
be a vote on this Tuesday morning that
has been postponed now and the thinking
is is perhaps blinkin wants to try to
drum up support for the US resol
resolution before it eventually does go
to a vote Gabriel alandro bringing us up
to date from New York thank you very
much indeed